--- 
 Authors: 
    - Brian Stacy 
    - Lucas Kitzmüller
    - Xiaoyu Wang
    - Daniel Gerszon Mahler 
    - Umar Serajuddin 
--- 

# Academic Data Use

 Reproducibility package for "Missing Evidence:  Tracking Academic Data Use around the World"

## Overview  

The code in this replication packages constructs the analysis files and tables and figures for Stacy, Kitzmüller, Wang, Mahler, and Serajuddin (2023) using R.  One main file runs all of the code to generate the data and figures.  The file is located in 02_programs/Data_Use_Academia_tables_figures.Rmd.  The replicator should expect the code to run for around 20-30 minutes. 

## Directory Structure

1. 01_raw_data contains the raw data for the project for each indicator. This folder contains the raw data from the training set of articles, as well as raw data from the World Bank World Development Indicators, and other academic papers studying academic production (Das et al. (2013), Porteous (2020), National Science Board, National Science Foundation (2019)).  A number of miscellaneous files are included as well that are used. The main file containing the 1 million classified articles is too large to host on github and is stored in a publicly accessible folder hosted using S3 from Amazon Web Services.

2. 02_programs contains the main replication file for the project, "Data_Use_Academia_tables_figures.Rmd".  Execute this file to replicate the results.  It also contains another file in ./02_programs/misc_scripts/wdi_pull.R.  This file is used to pull the data from the WDI.  It is not necessary to run this file, as the data is already included in the repository.  However, it is included for transparency purposes.  If this file is executed, the replication code will no longer replicate, as the data will be overwritten.

3. 03_output_data.  This folder contains a number of final output files in csv format. The most important is data_use_country_scores_annual.csv, which is primarily used to generate the tables and figures in the paper.  The other files are produced in the course of the data production, but are not used in the paper.  Some of them were used as sensitivity checks or exported results for the user, but the results were not directly included in the paper.


## Instructions to Replicators

* Clone the repository to your local machine.

* Before executing the Missing-SDG-Gender-Indicators.Rmd
file, users should set up the appropriate environment. The
renv package helps maintain consistent package versions and
dependencies, ensuring that users have the required libraries.

* Users should first ensure the renv package is installed. If it’s
not already present, it can be installed using install.packages("renv").

* Once installed, users should set up the environment by running
the following commands:

`renv::activate()`

`renv::restore()`

* With the environment now properly set up, users can proceed, please run 02_programs/Data_Use_Academia_tables_figures.Rmd to generate the data and figures.  This file will run all of the code to generate the data and figures.  The replicator should expect the code to run for around 20-30 minutes.

* There should be no need to change the working directory.  The code should run as is, because the code is using the [here](https://here.r-lib.org/) package in R, which automatically handles file paths on local machines.  Make sure the .here file is included when you clone the repository.

### License

The data are licensed under a Creative Commons/CC-BY-4.0 license. 

### Summary of Availability

- [X] All data **are** publicly available.
- [ ] Some data **cannot be made** publicly available.
- [ ] **No data can be made** publicly available.

### Data Sources

| Data.Name  | Data.Files | Location | Provided | Citation |
| -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | 
| World Development Indicators | correlates_df.csv | 01_raw_data/ | TRUE | World Bank (2023). World Development Indicators.   |
| S2ORC | results_completed_updated_20231003.fst | Hosted on S3 from AWS | TRUE | Lo, Kyle, Lucy Lu Wang, Mark Neumann, Rodney Kinney, and Daniel Weld. 2020. “S2ORC: The Semantic Scholar Open Research Corpus.” In Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 4969–83. Online: Association for Computational Linguistics. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2020.acl-main.447. |

### Data Description

There are four main files used in the analysis.  Each file will be discussed in turn.

1. results_completed_updated_20231003.fst
2. correlates_df.csv

################################## Need to Fix from here #########################################

#### SPI_Gender_UNSD_data_5yr.csv

This file contains 9 columns.  It is available in ./03_output_data/, because it is produced in the Missing-SDG-Gender-Indicators.Rmd, based on raw data files from the UN Global SDG Database.  It is generated by looping through each of the SDG files, which each represent data for one SDG indicator (or subindicator), appending the results together, and then checking whether SDG indicator values are available for each country over a specific period.  ./02_programs/misc_scripts/SDG_data_pull.Rmd was used to compile the raw SDG indicator data from the UN.  Data was last updated in March 2022.


Each row represents a country-year-SDG goal combination.  The SDG goal combinations are the 17 SDG goals, plus groups of indicators based on tier (tier 1, tier 2).  See [here](https://unstats.un.org/sdgs/iaeg-sdgs/tier-classification/) for a description of the SDG tiers.


| Column.Name | Description |
| -- | -- |
| iso3c | 3 letter ISO country code |
| date | Year of observation |
| country | Country name |
| region | Region of country |
| income_level | Income level of country |
| goal | SDG goal number or tier of indicators (Tier 1 indicators, Tier 2, etc) |
| ind_quality | **Key measure of availability of data**.  This contains the fraction of SDG indicators with a non-missing value over a 5 year period for a country. |
| ind_number | Indicator number |
| goal_count | Number of indicators in goal |

Methodology:

1.  Download the latest SDG indicator data from UN Stats
    (<https://unstats.un.org/sdgs/indicators/en/#>) using their API

2.  Transform the data so that for each indicator we can create a score
    documenting whether a value exists for the country in a year,
    whether the value is based on country data, country data adjusted,
    estimated, or modelled data according the UN Stats metadata. 

3.  Combine the resulting data into a single set of indicators by
    calculating the average across the gender SDGs.

Below is a paraphrased description from the UN stats webpage
(<https://unstats.un.org/sdgs/indicators/indicators-list/>):

The global indicator framework for Sustainable Development Goals was
developed by the Inter-Agency and Expert Group on SDG Indicators
(IAEG-SDGs) and agreed upon at the 48th session of the United Nations
Statistical Commission held in March 2017.

The global indicator framework includes 231 unique indicators. Please
note that the total number of indicators listed in the global indicator
framework of SDG indicators is 247. However, twelve indicators repeat
under two or three different targets.

For each value of the indicator, the responsible international agency
has been requested to indicate whether the national data were adjusted,
estimated, modelled or are the result of global monitoring. The "nature"
of the data in the SDG database is determined as follows:

-   Country data (C): Produced and disseminated by the country
    (including data adjusted by the country to meet international
    standards);

-   Country data adjusted (CA): Produced and provided by the country,
    but adjusted by the international agency for international
    comparability to comply with internationally agreed standards,
    definitions and classifications;

-   Estimated (E): Estimated based on national data, such as surveys or
    administrative records, or other sources but on the same variable
    being estimated, produced by the international agency when country
    data for some year(s) is not available, when multiple sources exist,
    or when there are data quality issues;

-   Modelled (M): Modelled by the agency on the basis of other
    covariates when there is a complete lack of data on the variable
    being estimated;

-   Global monitoring data (G): Produced on a regular basis by the
    designated agency for global monitoring, based on country data.
    There is no corresponding figure at the country level.

For each indicator, we will produce a value for each country with the
following coding scheme:

-   **1 Point**: Indicator exists and the value is based on the
    **country**, **country data adjusted**, or **estimated or Global
    Monitoring** data\
-   **0 Points**: Indicator **based on modeled data or does not exists**

We give countries no credit for modeled data, because the country did
not produce indicators in a form that was directly usable for reporting
on an SDG indicator.

When we average over all indicators in a goal to get a score, we compute
a 5 year moving average to avoid year to year variability in reporting
for SDGs. The overall score for an SDG is then the 5 year average of the
percentage of indicator values based on **country**, **country data
adjusted**, or **estimated or Global Monitoring** data that were
available for the SDG.

#### Gender_SDGs.csv

This file contains codes for the 50 SDG indicators we consider in the paper.  Note that there are 68 rows in the data file, because several SDG indicators have sub-indicators that are stored as separate files in the UN Global SDG Database.  The file has 5 columns:

SDG	Description	Code	Gender_Breakdown	ccode

| Column.Name | Description |
| -- | -- |
| SDG | SDG indicator number |
| Description | Description of SDG indicator |
| Code | UN Global SDG Indicator database series code |
| Gender Breakdown | Indicator of whether the series requires a gender breakdown, or is specific to women |
| ccode | A special code used to aggregate to our 50 SDG indicators |

#### Class.xlsx

This file contains the World Bank country classifications for regions and income groups used in the analysis.  They were current as of June 2023.  However, because the classifications are updated periodically, the classifications may have changed since the data were downloaded.  A description of the classifications are available [here](https://datahelpdesk.worldbank.org/knowledgebase/articles/906519-world-bank-country-and-lending-groups).

You can download the classifications used [here](https://datacatalog.worldbank.org/int/search/dataset/0037712/World-Development-Indicators).  Version 20 was used.

#### WDIEXCEL.xlsx

The file contains indicator data from the World Bank World Development Indicators (WDI).  The file contains the bulk download, which was current as of June 2023.  However, because the WDI is updated periodically, the data may have changed since the data were downloaded.  A description of the WDI is available [here](https://datatopics.worldbank.org/world-development-indicators/).

The WDIECXEL.xlsx file contains data for all indicators, but just a subset of the indicators were used.  These include:

| WDI Series Code | Description |
| -- | -- |
| SP.POP.TOTL | Population, total |
| IQ.SPI.OVRL | SPI Overall Score |
| IQ.SPI.PIL1 | SPI Pillar 1: Data Use |
| IQ.SPI.PIL2 | SPI Pillar 2: Data Services |
| IQ.SPI.PIL3 | SPI Pillar 3: Data Products |
| IQ.SPI.PIL4 | SPI Pillar 4: Data Sources |
| IQ.SPI.PIL5 | SPI Pillar 5: Data Infrastructure |
| NY.GDP.PCAP.PP.CD | GDP per capita, PPP (current international $) |
| SG.LAW.INDX | Women Business and the Law Index Score (scale 1-100) |
| NY.GDP.PCAP.KD | GDP per capita (constant 2015 US$) |
| HD.HCI.OVRL | Human Capital Index (HCI) (Scale 0-1) |
| GE.EST | World Governance Indicators, Government Effectiveness Estimate |


You can download the WDI data used [here](https://datacatalog.worldbank.org/int/search/dataset/0037712/World-Development-Indicators).  Version 20 was used.

### Software

R version 4.3.1 (2022-06-23 ucrt) -- "Beagle Scouts" was used for data production and to produce the tables and figures.

This repository contains several files from the R package "renv". The renv package helps manage specific package versions used to produce the results in this repository. Because package version conflicts can make code that runs on one system not run on another system, it is important to have a list of the specific package versions used and a workflow for accessing these specific packages. The renv package provides this. In order to use renv, see the renv documentation here (https://rstudio.github.io/renv/articles/renv.html). In general, the renv::restore() command should install all packages found in the renv.lock file in this repository, so that version conflicts do not cause errors.
